Brief Overview of the Dataset:

The Hotel Booking Dataset was gotten from www.absentdata.com, it consists of three different dataset namely; 
i.   Hotel Dataset which has 100757 rows and 32 columns
ii.  Meal cost
iii. Market segment

Project Requirement:
Build a visual data story/dashboard to present to the stateholders.

Goal:
Develop a database to analyze and visualize the data using SQL and Tableau.

Stakeholders Questions:
1. Is our hotel revenue growing by year?
2. Should we increase our parking lot size?
3. What trends can we see in the data?
   
My Data Analysis Pipeline for this project;
1. Build a database
2. Develop the SQL Query
3. Connect to a visualization tool
4. Visualize
5. Summarize my findings.

Data Preparation:
Building a database;
Load the dataset in Excel, 
Open your SQL App(I use MySQL SSMS), click on databases and create a new database
Import your dataset from Excel into your SSMS and then refresh.

Data Exploration & Analysis:
Developing the SQL Query;
Click on new query and start your analysis.
The dataset consists of three different hotel data distinguished by year ranging from 2018-2020, I selected all the data from the three years then used Union to merge all three data together which then resulted to the 100757 rows and 32 columns. I also joined the market segment data and meal cost data to the hotel data using left join. This added 5 more columns to the dataset. 
To answer the first question of the stakeholders, I decided to calculate the Revenue generated by the hotel. This was done by adding the sum of stays in week nights to the stays in weekend nights and multiplying it by the average daily rate(adr) and substracting it from the discount. The revenue column created was then added to the hotel dataset.

Data Visualization:
I connected the data to Tableau for visualization and also to answer the other questions. 
(for more details about my analysis & visualization, check my tableau https://public.tableau.com/app/profile/foby.pearl

Summary of Findings;
1. The total revenue generated is about $10.23 million. it also shows that the revenue of the hotels are increasing by the year
2. The total parking spaces of the hotel is about 8692 thousand
3. The total nights spent at the hotel is about 367.94 thousand
4. City hotel generates more revenue of about 53.62% compared to Resort hotel of about 46.38%
5. Resort hotel uses more parking spaces of about 6591 compared to City hotel of about 2101.

Recommendation
1. Revenue genrated on weekdays are more than that of weekends therefore the stakeholders should come up with ways to boost the revenue gotten on weekends
2. From my analysis, I believe there isn't a need to build more parking lots. Nevertheless if there's a need to build more parkng lots it is adviced to be built in the Resort hotel.
